---
title: "How To Live More Deeply In a Distracted World"
description: "Tips to be more intentive in the hyper-digital era."
publishDate: "04 September 2023"
tags: ["productivity"]
---

Despite countless attempts to embrace the "deep life"—presence, intentive behavior, intense focus, and authentic connection—over the past years, I've always fallen flat; the hyper-digital world we live in has always found a way to grab my attention. However, through my struggles, I've picked up a few game changing tips to help facilitate this lifestyle I desire.

My quest to eliminate distractions began about a year ago when I first read [Deep Work by Cal Newport](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25744928-deep-work?ac=1&from_search=true&qid=tOtelbShN5&rank=1), which outlines the importance of and fulfilment derived from completely undisctracted work. In the book, Newport advocates for states of pure isolation from the outside world conducive to immense productivity and in which creativity can flourish—analog systems, remote locations, etc. However, as a computer science student living in Chicago, I struggled to attain isolated states of work. I've tried to employ analog systems where possible—a nice [leather journal](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B002CVAU1Y?amp=&crid=2I6L5K4HKSFKO&amp=&sprefix=leuch) and physical books—but I remain tethered to digital workflows, making deep work difficult to achieve. Thus, I sought ways to integrate the principles from Deep Work into a digitized workflow system, outlined below.

The most recent and most impactful piece of technology I've found in attaining a deep and fully present state is [this $20 timed phone lockbox](https://www.amazon.com/Portable-Android-Self-Discipline-Achieve-Addiction/dp/B09XDCG7HQ/ref=sr_1_4?keywords=phone%2Blockbox&sr=8-4&th=1) I found on Amazon. It's pretty self explanatory—you place your phone inside, set a timer for however long you desire, and it locks it away for that period of time. It has an emergency release mechanism in place, but it can only be used twice over the product's lifespan.

In conjuction with the lockbox, I use [Cold Turkey Blocker](https://getcoldturkey.com/) to block distracting apps and sites on my computer. Cold Turkey Blocker is an app that allows you to block specific websites and apps on your computer using different locking mechanisms—a timer, times of day, or having to type a long string of random text to access apps. One tip I have is to split different groups of distracting sites/apps into different blocks such that you can tailor your blockage to the work you intend to do. For example, if I intend to work on a paper, I'll block programming related websites, alongside social media, which I try to keep blocked all day.

When my phone isn't locked away, I take other measures to limit distractions on it—do not disturb mode being an obvious one, which I keep on all the time. Eventually, I employed iOS's built in time limit feature; however, I always ended up using a passcode to bypass it. I found [Opal](https://www.opal.so/), a screen time and distraction blocking app, to be a much better solution to my problems. Opal allows you to restrict usage of certain apps using either timed intervals or making you wait extended periods of time before opening them. After implementing it, my time spent on social media has become almost non-existent, and my time reading on Kindle has shot up dramatically.

It is important to remember that achieving this lifestyle is an incremental process and that it is difficult (if not impossible) to cut out distracting habits all at once. However, through 1% improvements compounded over time, a slow adoption of these tools can help fight the allure of the digital world.
